Hi with the Mac in this video we're looking at implementing the second assignment which is the cue.
These assignments have multiple parts.
The first one to re-implement some methods in the linked list and to implement a couple of new ones
and then to create the linked queue methods as well which were just a wrapper to the linked list.
In this video we're going to be explaining all of that how it works together and implementing the methods
.
The ads start to list although renamed does the same thing as the ad solist method from the last assignment
It just adds a note at the beginning of the list what we have to do here is just as we did in the last
assignment if the route is defined then say that the nodes next node the new node next node is the root
and finally assign the root to be equal to the next node to the new unit.
Sorry.
So what we're doing here is very fine that the root has a value and if it does then make sure the new
node is appended at the start of the list by setting its next node to be the route that is currently
there.
Finally we make the root this variable appear to be equal to the node we're adding.
And that plunks it in the beginning and puts it back another that here.
I'm also going to implement the find method which we also did in the last assignment and all this has
to do is create a marker which is going to be equal to the root while the marker has a value check if
the marked her name is equal to the name we're looking for which is the parameter to the method and
if it is returned the marker and if not say marker equals marker don't get next.
And finally if we didn't find anything throughout that loop we're going to raise a lookup error which
says that the name was not found in the linked list.
OK.
That's the find method which we implemented in the last video.
So in the last assignment.
Now let's go over to the size method which is just going to keep track of how many nodes are in the
list.
Once again I'm going to create a marker node which is going to be initialized at the root while the
marker has a value.
I'm going to be keeping track of how many markers there are how many nodes the if a marker does not
have a value that means it is none.
And that means we've reached the end of the list.
When that is the case.
I no longer want to keep track of any loops or no one of the keep going through the loop and that is
why we are testing for marker to not be known.
Remember while marker means exactly the same as while marker is not None.
These two this and this has the same meaning.
So while marker then I'm going to keep track of the notes and how we're going to do that with a variable
which I'm going to call count if the marker has a value count plus 1 and then marker is a marker.
Don't get mixed.
Finally at the very end we return count as that is how many Noach were visited with this loop.
Hopefully this makes sense.
All we're doing is creating an initial marter variable.
Setting it up with a root which is a starting node setting the count to be zero.
And while the marker has a value we're going to start counting.
If the route is none the marker is going to be none.
And this loop is not going to run.
So we're going to return 0 because that's where the counties if the route has a value on a node then
this loop is going to run at least once the count is going to increase by 1.
And the market is going to become the markers next if that is none.
We're going to return count which is going to be one.
And so finally the more complex method is the remove and from least we're going to remove at the end
.
So what this has to do once again is iterate over each node and through that iteration find both the
second to last node and the last note and sent the second to last nodes next node to be numb as opposed
to the last node and finally returned the last note.
Once again we have to iterate.
So marker is self-taught root.
And while marker we're going to do stuff we're going to do is say we have three nodes in our list.
The marker is initially going to be the root which is the first note we need to find the last note but
we also need to find the node before the last node so what would are going to be doing just keeping
track of the marker and of the next node.
So we're always going to be keeping track of two notes.
The current node and the next node eventually when the next nodes next node is none.
That means the next node is the last node which means the marker is the second to last node let's look
at some code as well as the Mocca.
We're going to be looking at the following node which is a marker getting next.
This is just a variable which contains the node that the marker is pointing to in case of us having
three nodes which I'm calling and depicting as x's here the marker would be the first X and the following
noon would be the second x.
Notice there is another node there as well.
And finally there is none.
At the end.
OK.
And this is just a depiction for you to look at.
Now the marker is this one I'm following notice not one which means the following node is not the last
node.
There is one more.
So what we'll do is if the following node has a value we'll say if not following no don't get next
what this is doing is saying OK we've got the marker and we've got the following node.
And then comes this line.
If the where this line if the following note has a value which it does then we'll check for this one
.
If the following nodes next node does not have a value which in this case it does we're going to do
something.
So at first the mater is going to be this one.
The following note is going to be this one and this statement is going to be false and it's not going
to execute because this node is then and it has a value.
However once we reach this to be the marker and this to be the following node this if statement is going
to run and what is going to tell me is that because the following nodes next node is none.
That means this node must be the last node.
So what do I want to do when I've reached the last node.
That's what should go inside this if statement here.
And what I want to do is make sure that the last node is removed by making the marker point to none
.
And skipping this middle node there when that happens the marker will point to none.
Nothing will point to this node and therefore it will just be erased from memory by Python.
So what to do is a marker set next to be none and return the following node which is the note that we've
deleted.
Finally at the end of the while loop make sure to move your marker over to the next slot by doing marker
equal Markert get next.
Naturally if we return something this is not going to execute because we're going to be exiting the
method in there.
So there is one last thing that we have to take care of.
Which is what happens if there is only one node in the list.
If the route is by itself what happens then.
Well here's what will happen with the current code.
We would set the marker to be the route while the marker has a value which it does then we would get
the following node which is the markers next node which is none.
In this case is the following no one has a value which it doesn't we would run this but it doesn't.
So we wouldn't run any of it.
And then we would say a marker equals marker to get next.
That would be none.
This would fail and then we would return none which is the default for any Python method.
So if the route is by itself currently our code does not delete it it just returns None.
So what we have to do is make sure that we have a scenario here or some code to deal with that scenario
where the route is by itself and there's only one node.
Let's do that.
Here we have the marker which is the root.
And then what we're going to do is say if the markers next node is none.
If not Markert get next.
That means the market is by itself.
The route is by itself and therefore we have to delete it.
Especially remember this is before the loop so the marker here is only ever going to be the route.
What we'll do is we'll say self-taught root equals none return marker.
So if the markers next node which is the root if the roots next node is none it means the root is by
itself.
So in this scenario there.
And then what we do is we set the root to be none.
Remember this is just the variable up there the property and then we'll return the marker which is that
variable there which contains the root.
That way we can deal with both the root.
Begin by itself and also all other scenarios in your head.
Think about a couple of scenarios.
Does it work when the route is by itself.
Does it work with tunnels.
Does it work with 10 nodes.
And that's probably fine.
I don't think you have to think about three note for note five not six or seven nodes etc..
I think they're all in the same sort of Plass group.
So think about a couple of scenarios to make sure that your code works.
Go through it line by line in your head and see what the computer would do.
And that is a good way of verifying that your code is working.
Once this is done we are ready to move over to the queue.
But before that just for your convenience I'm going to add a couple of comments here so that when I
give you the code which is by the way available in this section you can understand it better.
So
the first thing we're doing is we're iterating over each node in the list using this one loop.
Then we get the following node or the next node.
And what that gives us is the next available node of the list or after the marker.
Finally if the following note has a value we're going to check if the following nodes next node has
a value
and if the next nodes next node is none.
That means the next node is the last note which means that the current marker is the second to last
node because there's only one more after that.
Finally if that is the case we're going to make the marketers next note equal to none.
So the very last node is removed.
And I just wanted to do that for you so that you can have a bit more info when you read that code and
especially delete the root if it is by itself.
OK.
Now let's go over to the queue which is in the linked queue class here.
The linked class remember this class is only meant to be a wrapper around the linked list.
So the methods don't really have to do anything new.
They were just initially renaming them and giving them a standardized name to just push and pop.
Thus the push method only has to do is as we saw earlier is get the linked list and add to start the
node we're passing in as a parameter.
The pop method all it has to do is return the linked lists remove and from list.
And that is going to remove a. node and return it and then this pop method is going to get that returned
node and return needs.
Finally the Lenda method is just going to return the size of the list and return shelved or linked list
size.
And as you remember this allows us to call the lane builtin method on an object which is like so line
my variable.
That's what this lende method is.
If not we would have to do something like.
My variable Dotts size which is also fine.
Once we've done this we are ready to run the tests and see if they work.
So let's do that let's right click the test file and run the unit tests and tests.
Hopefully you'll see all 10 tests passed and the green bar which means that you did the right thing
and you were able to implement the code suggested.
Now I do hope that you did that before looking at this video as that would be a bit more of a challenge
but if you weren't able and you wanted to look at this video first that's totally fine.
I do recommend that now that you've seen this video if you weren't able to implement this before you
go back to the assignment download it again and give it another go.
That sort of repetition and making sure that details are stuck in your brain is one of the best ways
to learn without further ado.
I'll be seeing you in the next video where we're going to be looking at stacks.
I'll see you there.